Git signed commits (#6324)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/git-commit-signing.md

- For your Git commits to be marked as "verified", your dbt Cloud email address must be a verified email address with your Git provider. The Git provider (such as, GitHub, GitLab) checks that the commit's signed email matches a verified email in your Git provider account. If they don’t match, the commit won't be marked as "verified."
- Keep you dbt Cloud email and Git provider's verified email in sync to avoid verification issues. If you change your email address:
  - Generate a new GPG keypair with the updated email, following the [steps mentioned earlier](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/git-commit-signing#generate-gpg-keypair-in-dbt-cloud).
  - Or add and verify the new email in your Git provider.
 
## FAQs

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What happens if I delete my GPG keypair in dbt Cloud?">

If you delete your GPG keypair in dbt Cloud, your Git commits will no longer be signed. You can generate a new GPG keypair by following the [steps mentioned earlier](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/git-commit-signing#generate-gpg-keypair-in-dbt-cloud).
</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What if my Git provider doesn't support GPG keys?">

> Currently, GitHub or GitLab are supported Git providers for git commit signing (Azure DevOps is not supported). If your Git provider doesn't support GPG keys, you won't be able to sign your Git commits. You can still commit code to your repository, but the commits won't be marked as "verified".

Reviewer: confirming if this is right @GideonShils ?

Reviewer 2: The last sentence should probably change.

If your git provider *requires* commit verification, your commits might be rejected, but that is configured in the git provider. if that is not configured, and if your git provider doesnt support GPG keys, then you can commit but they will remain unverified.

Reviewer 3: Added in this commit: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6324/commits/73d097b0d7784ef3645b0e715ee364184aaf2471

---
title: "Git commit signing"
description: "Learn how to sign your Git commits when using the IDE for development."
sidebar_label: Git commit signing
---

# Git commit signing <Lifecycle status="Enterprise" />

> To improve identity protection/impersonation and enhance security, you can sign your Git commits when pushing them to the repository. Using your signature, a Git provider can cryptographically verify it and mark the commit as "verified", giving people increased confidence about the origin of the commit. 

Reviewer 2: same comment as below - just "prevent impersonation"

Reviewer 3: Update din this commit: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6324/commits/73d097b0d7784ef3645b0e715ee364184aaf2471

> You can configure dbt Cloud to sign your Git commits when using the IDE for development. To set up, enable the feature in dbt Cloud, generate a GPG keypair, and upload the public key to your Git provider to use for signature verification.  

Reviewer 2: we should say "follow the flow to generate a keypair" bc they don't need to generate their own keypair - we manage that for them/

Reviewer 3: updated in this commit: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6324/commits/73d097b0d7784ef3645b0e715ee364184aaf2471

## Prerequisites 

> - GitHub or GitLab is your Git provider. Currently, Azure DevOps is not supported.

Reviewer: do we want to say azure is coming soon? or is this not the case

Reviewer: @GideonShils @greg-mckeon

Reviewer 2: it's not possible on Azure, so it won't be supported.

> - You have a dbt Cloud account on the [Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/).

Reviewer: avail in versionless? or not necessary?

Reviewer: @GideonShils @greg-mckeon

Reviewer 2: not necessary

---
title: "Git commit signing"
description: "Learn how to sign your Git commits when using the IDE for development."
sidebar_label: Git commit signing
---

# Git commit signing <Lifecycle status="Enterprise" />

> To prevent impersonation and enhance security, you can sign your Git commits when pushing them to the repository. Using your signature, a Git provider can cryptographically verify it and mark the commit as "verified", giving people increased confidence about the origin of the commit.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To prevent impersonation and enhance security, you can sign your Git commits before pushing them to your repository. Using your signature, a Git provider can cryptographically verify a commit and mark it as "verified", providing increased confidence about its origin.
```

You can configure dbt Cloud to sign your Git commits when using the IDE for development. To set up, enable the feature in dbt Cloud, follow the flow to generate a keypair, and upload the public key to your Git provider to use for signature verification.  

## Prerequisites 

- GitHub or GitLab is your Git provider. Currently, Azure DevOps is not supported.
- You have a dbt Cloud account on the [Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/).

## Generate GPG keypair in dbt Cloud

To generate a GPG keypair in dbt Cloud, follow these steps:
1. Go to your **Personal profile** page in dbt Cloud.
2. Navigate to **Signed Commits** section.

> 3. Enable the **Sign commits originating from this user** toggle to generate a GPG key.

Reviewer 4: Since the next line says This will generate a GPG keypair, maybe we could leave out the last part:
```suggestion
3. Enable the **Sign commits originating from this user** toggle.
```

> 4. This will generate a GPG keypair and display the public key. You can copy the public key to upload it to your Git provider. Make sure to keep the private key secure.

Reviewer 4: The private key is only used internally, and we don't expose it to the user, so maybe:
```suggestion
4. This will generate a GPG keypair and display the public key. You can copy the public key to upload it to your Git provider.
```

Reviewer 4: Or alternatively:
```suggestion
4. This will generate a GPG keypair. The private key will be used to sign all future Git commits. The public key will be displayed, allowing you to upload it to your Git provider.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/example-git-signed-commits-setting.png" width="95%" title="Example of profile setting Signed commits" />

## Upload public key to Git provider 

To upload the public key to your Git provider, follow the detailed documentation provided by the supported Git provider:

- [GitHub instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/adding-a-gpg-key-to-your-github-account) 
- [GitLab instructions](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/repository/signed_commits/gpg.html) 

> Once you have uploaded the public key to your Git provider, your Git commits will be signed with the GPG keypair generated in dbt Cloud after you push the changes to the repository.

Reviewer 4: Maybe the following? The signing takes place before the commit is pushed.
```suggestion
Once you have uploaded the public key to your Git provider, your Git commits will be marked as "Verified" after you push the changes to the repository.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/git-sign-verified.jpg" width="95%" title="Example of a verified Git commit in a Git provider." />

## Considerations

- The GPG keypair is tied to the user, not a specific account. There is a 1:1 relationship between the user and keypair. The same key will be used for signing commits on any accounts the user is a member of.

> - The GPG key generated in dbt Cloud is linked to the email address associated with your account at the time of key creation. This email identifies the author of signed commits.

Reviewer 4: For consistency:
```suggestion
- The GPG keypair generated in dbt Cloud is linked to the email address associated with your account at the time of keypair creation. This email identifies the author of signed commits.
```

- For your Git commits to be marked as "verified", your dbt Cloud email address must be a verified email address with your Git provider. The Git provider (such as, GitHub, GitLab) checks that the commit's signed email matches a verified email in your Git provider account. If they don’t match, the commit won't be marked as "verified."

> - Keep you dbt Cloud email and Git provider's verified email in sync to avoid verification issues. If you change your email address:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Keep you dbt Cloud email and Git provider's verified email in sync to avoid verification issues. If you change your dbt Cloud email address:
```

Reviewer 3: Missed this but addressed in this commit: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6324/commits/69fca127fd552d6129ddba3b2ce7d074ead66bd0

> - Keep you dbt Cloud email and Git provider's verified email in sync to avoid verification issues. If you change your email address:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Keep your dbt Cloud email and Git provider's verified email in sync to avoid verification issues. If you change your email address:
```

  - Generate a new GPG keypair with the updated email, following the [steps mentioned earlier](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/git-commit-signing#generate-gpg-keypair-in-dbt-cloud).

>   - Or add and verify the new email in your Git provider.

Reviewer 4: They will need do both of these steps if their dbt cloud email address ever changes:
```suggestion
  - Add and verify the new email in your Git provider.
```

<!-- vale off -->

## FAQs

<!-- vale on -->

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What happens if I delete my GPG keypair in dbt Cloud?">

If you delete your GPG keypair in dbt Cloud, your Git commits will no longer be signed. You can generate a new GPG keypair by following the [steps mentioned earlier](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/git-commit-signing#generate-gpg-keypair-in-dbt-cloud).
</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What if my Git provider doesn't support GPG keys?">

> GitHub or GitLab are supported Git providers for git commit signing (Azure DevOps is not supported). If your git provider requires commit verification, unsigned or unverified commits might be rejected. You can configure commit verification requirements in your git provider. If your git provider doesn't enforce commit verification and doesn't support GPG keys, then you can commit but your commits will be marked unverified because there’s no GPG key available to verify them.

Reviewer 4: I'd consider breaking this out into distinct sections:

```
What Git providers support GPG keys?

Commit signing is a [git feature](https://git-scm.com/book/ms/v2/Git-Tools-Signing-Your-Work),
and is independent of any specific provider. However, not all providers support the upload of public
keys, or the display of verification badges on commits. GitHub and GitLab support these features,
while Azure DevOps does not.

What if my Git provider doesn't support GPG keys?

If your Git Provider does not explicitly support the upload of public GPG keys, then
commits will still be signed using the private key, but no verification information will
be displayed within the provider.

What if my Git provider requires that all commits are signed?

If your Git provider is configured to enforce commit verification, then unsigned commits
will be be rejected. To avoid this, ensure that you have followed all steps above to generate
a keypair, and upload the public key to the provider.
```

Reviewer 3: addressed in https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6324/commits/74f748c94cb2415bdb843f20eea54a0f6dacfd2f and https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6324/commits/57151181a579fabb2536bf8713c3b61556c89e20

- [GitLab instructions](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/repository/signed_commits/gpg.html) 

Once you have uploaded the public key to your Git provider, your Git commits will be marked as "Verified" after you push the changes to the repository.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/git-sign-verified.jpg" width="95%" title="Example of a verified Git commit in a Git provider." />

## Considerations

- The GPG keypair is tied to the user, not a specific account. There is a 1:1 relationship between the user and keypair. The same key will be used for signing commits on any accounts the user is a member of.
- The GPG keypair generated in dbt Cloud is linked to the email address associated with your account at the time of keypair creation. This email identifies the author of signed commits.
- For your Git commits to be marked as "verified", your dbt Cloud email address must be a verified email address with your Git provider. The Git provider (such as, GitHub, GitLab) checks that the commit's signed email matches a verified email in your Git provider account. If they don’t match, the commit won't be marked as "verified."

> - Keep your dbt Cloud email and Git provider's verified email in sync to avoid verification issues. If you change your email address:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Keep your dbt Cloud email and Git provider's verified email in sync to avoid verification issues. If you change your dbt Cloud email address:
```

  - Generate a new GPG keypair with the updated email, following the [steps mentioned earlier](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/git-commit-signing#generate-gpg-keypair-in-dbt-cloud).
  - Add and verify the new email in your Git provider.

<!-- vale off -->

## FAQs

<!-- vale on -->

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What happens if I delete my GPG keypair in dbt Cloud?">

If you delete your GPG keypair in dbt Cloud, your Git commits will no longer be signed. You can generate a new GPG keypair by following the [steps mentioned earlier](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/git-commit-signing#generate-gpg-keypair-in-dbt-cloud).
</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What Git providers support GPG keys?">

GitHub and GitLab support commit signing, while Azure DevOps does not. Commit signing is a [git feature](https://git-scm.com/book/ms/v2/Git-Tools-Signing-Your-Work), and is independent of any specific provider. However, not all providers support the upload of public keys, or the display of verification badges on commits.

</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What if my Git provider doesn't support GPG keys?">

> If your Git Provider does not explicitly support the upload of public GPG keys, then

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your Git Provider does not explicitly support the uploading of public GPG keys, then
```

commits will still be signed using the private key, but no verification information will
be displayed by the provider.

</DetailsToggle>

<DetailsToggle alt_header="What if my Git provider requires that all commits are signed?">

If your Git provider is configured to enforce commit verification, then unsigned commits

> will be be rejected. To avoid this, ensure that you have follow all previous steps to generate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
will be rejected. To avoid this, ensure that you have follow all previous steps to generate
```

> will be rejected. To avoid this, ensure that you have follow all previous steps to generate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
will be rejected. To avoid this, ensure that you have followed all previous steps to generate
```

> a keypair, and upload the public key to the provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a keypair, and uploaded the public key to the provider.
```
